README.md, before:

# Quantum++ 
## Version 0.5 - 19 March 2015

Quantum++ is a C++11 general purpose quantum computing library, composed 
solely of template header files. It uses the 
[Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) linear algebra library and, 
if available, the [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) multi-processing library. 
For additional [Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) documentation see 
<http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/>. For a simple 
[Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) quick ASCII reference see
<http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/AsciiQuickReference.txt>.

Quantum++ is not restricted to qubit systems or specific quantum 
information processing tasks, being capable of simulating arbitrary quantum 
processes. The main design factors taken in consideration were the ease of 
use, high portability, and high performance.

If you are interesting in contributing, please contact me. 
To contribute, you need to have a decent knowledge of C++ (preferably C++11), 
including templates and the standard library, a basic knowledge of 
quantum computing and linear algebra, and some working experience 
with [Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org).

Copyright (c) 2013 - 2015 Vlad Gheorghiu, vgheorgh AT gmail DOT com.

---
Quantum++ is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

Quantum++ is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with Quantum++.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

---
## Building instructions

### Configuration:

- Compiler: [g++](https://gcc.gnu.org/) version 4.8 or later 
(for good C++11 support)
- [Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) library located in `$HOME/eigen`
- Quantum++ library located in `$HOME/qpp`
- [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) compiler 
include header files:
`/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/extern/include`
- [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) compiler 
shared library files:
`/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64`


### Building without a build system

- Example file: `$HOME/qpp/examples/example.cpp`
- Output executable: `$HOME/qpp/examples/example`
- Must run the commands below from inside the directory `$HOME/qpp/examples` 

#### Release version (without [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support): 

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -O3 -DNDEBUG -DEIGEN_NO_DEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
         example.cpp -o example

#### Debug version (without [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support): 

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -g3 -DDEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
          example.cpp -o example

#### Release version (with [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support): 

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -O3 -DNDEBUG -DEIGEN_NO_DEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
         -I/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/extern/include \
         -L/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64 \
         -lmx -lmat example.cpp -o example

#### Debug version (with [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support):  

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -g3 -DDEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
         -I /Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/extern/include \
         -L /Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64 \
         -lmx -lmat example.cpp -o example


### Building using [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/)

The current version of the repository has a `CMakeLists.txt` configuration file
for building examples using [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/). 
To build an example using [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/), 
I recommend an out-of-source build, i.e., from the root of the project 
(where `./include` is located), type

    mkdir ./build
    cd ./build
    cmake ..
    make

The above commands build the relase version (default) executable `qpp`, 
from the source file `./examples/example.cpp`,
without [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support (default), 
inside the directory `./build`. To build a different configuration, 
e.g. debug version with [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) 
support, type from the root of the project

    cd ./build
    rm -rf *
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DWITH_MATLAB=ON ..
    make
    
Or, to disable [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) support (enabled by default), type
   
    cd ./build
    rm -rf *
    cmake -DWITH_OPENMP=OFF ..
    make

To change the name of the example file, the location of the
[Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org)
library or the location of [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) 
installation, edit the `CMakeLists.txt` file. See also `CMakeLists.txt` 
for additional options. Do not forget to remove everything from 
the `./build` directory before a fresh build!


### Additional remarks

- The C++ compiler must be C++11 compliant.

- If using [Windows](http://windows.microsoft.com/), I recommend compiling 
under [cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com) via [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/).

- If your compiler does not support [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) 
(as it is the case e.g with [clang++](http://clang.llvm.org/)), 
disable [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) in your build, 
as otherwise the linker may not find the 
[gomp](https://gcc.gnu.org/projects/gomp/) library.

- If you run the program on [OS X](http://www.apple.com/osx) with 
[MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support, make sure that 
the environment variable `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` is set to point to the 
[MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) 
compiler library location, see the `run_OSX_MATLAB` script. 
Otherwise, you will get a runtime error like 
`dyld: Library not loaded: @rpath/libmat.dylib`.

    * I recommend running via a script, as otherwise setting the 
    `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` globally may interfere with 
    [macports](https://www.macports.org/)' [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/) 
    installation (in case you use [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/) from 
    [macports](https://www.macports.org/)). If you use a script, 
    then the environment variable is local to the script and 
    does not interfere with the rest of the system.

    * Example of running script, run from inside the directory where 
    the executable `qpp` is located:
	    
            #!/bin/sh # Run Quantum++ under OS X with MATLAB support
            
            export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=$DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH:"/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64"
            ./qpp

- If you build a debug version with [g++](https://gcc.gnu.org/) under 
[OS X](http://www.apple.com/osx) and use 
[gdb](http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/) to step inside template functions 
you may want to add `-fno-weak` compiler flag. See 
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/23330641/gnu-gdb-can-not-step-into-template-functions-os-x-mavericks>
for more details about this problem.

Commit message:

switched to development branch
v0.5.1-devel

README.md, after:

# Quantum++ 
## Version 0.5.1 - development

### Development branch, use it at your own risk!
### Switch to the master branch for the latest stable version.

Quantum++ is a C++11 general purpose quantum computing library, composed 
solely of template header files. It uses the 
[Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) linear algebra library and, 
if available, the [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) multi-processing library. 
For additional [Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) documentation see 
<http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/>. For a simple 
[Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) quick ASCII reference see
<http://eigen.tuxfamily.org/dox/AsciiQuickReference.txt>.

Quantum++ is not restricted to qubit systems or specific quantum 
information processing tasks, being capable of simulating arbitrary quantum 
processes. The main design factors taken in consideration were the ease of 
use, high portability, and high performance.

If you are interesting in contributing, please contact me. 
To contribute, you need to have a decent knowledge of C++ (preferably C++11), 
including templates and the standard library, a basic knowledge of 
quantum computing and linear algebra, and some working experience 
with [Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org).

Copyright (c) 2013 - 2015 Vlad Gheorghiu, vgheorgh AT gmail DOT com.

---
Quantum++ is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
(at your option) any later version.

Quantum++ is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with Quantum++.  If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.

---
## Building instructions

### Configuration:

- Compiler: [g++](https://gcc.gnu.org/) version 4.8 or later 
(for good C++11 support)
- [Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org) library located in `$HOME/eigen`
- Quantum++ library located in `$HOME/qpp`
- [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) compiler 
include header files:
`/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/extern/include`
- [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) compiler 
shared library files:
`/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64`


### Building without a build system

- Example file: `$HOME/qpp/examples/example.cpp`
- Output executable: `$HOME/qpp/examples/example`
- Must run the commands below from inside the directory `$HOME/qpp/examples` 

#### Release version (without [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support): 

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -O3 -DNDEBUG -DEIGEN_NO_DEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
         example.cpp -o example

#### Debug version (without [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support): 

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -g3 -DDEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
          example.cpp -o example

#### Release version (with [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support): 

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -O3 -DNDEBUG -DEIGEN_NO_DEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
         -I/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/extern/include \
         -L/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64 \
         -lmx -lmat example.cpp -o example

#### Debug version (with [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support):  

	g++ -pedantic -std=c++11 -Wall -Wextra -Weffc++ -fopenmp \
         -g3 -DDEBUG \
         -isystem $HOME/eigen -I $HOME/qpp/include \
         -I /Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/extern/include \
         -L /Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64 \
         -lmx -lmat example.cpp -o example


### Building using [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/)

The current version of the repository has a `CMakeLists.txt` configuration file
for building examples using [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/). 
To build an example using [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/), 
I recommend an out-of-source build, i.e., from the root of the project 
(where `./include` is located), type

    mkdir ./build
    cd ./build
    cmake ..
    make

The above commands build the relase version (default) executable `qpp`, 
from the source file `./examples/example.cpp`,
without [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support (default), 
inside the directory `./build`. To build a different configuration, 
e.g. debug version with [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) 
support, type from the root of the project

    cd ./build
    rm -rf *
    cmake -DCMAKE_BUILD_TYPE=Debug -DWITH_MATLAB=ON ..
    make
    
Or, to disable [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) support (enabled by default), type
   
    cd ./build
    rm -rf *
    cmake -DWITH_OPENMP=OFF ..
    make

To change the name of the example file, the location of the
[Eigen 3](http://eigen.tuxfamily.org)
library or the location of [MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) 
installation, edit the `CMakeLists.txt` file. See also `CMakeLists.txt` 
for additional options. Do not forget to remove everything from 
the `./build` directory before a fresh build!


### Additional remarks

- The C++ compiler must be C++11 compliant.

- If using [Windows](http://windows.microsoft.com/), I recommend compiling 
under [cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com) via [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/).

- If your compiler does not support [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) 
(as it is the case e.g with [clang++](http://clang.llvm.org/)), 
disable [OpenMP](http://openmp.org/) in your build, 
as otherwise the linker may not find the 
[gomp](https://gcc.gnu.org/projects/gomp/) library.

- If you run the program on [OS X](http://www.apple.com/osx) with 
[MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) support, make sure that 
the environment variable `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` is set to point to the 
[MATLAB](http://www.mathworks.com/products/matlab/) 
compiler library location, see the `run_OSX_MATLAB` script. 
Otherwise, you will get a runtime error like 
`dyld: Library not loaded: @rpath/libmat.dylib`.

    * I recommend running via a script, as otherwise setting the 
    `DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH` globally may interfere with 
    [macports](https://www.macports.org/)' [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/) 
    installation (in case you use [cmake](http://www.cmake.org/) from 
    [macports](https://www.macports.org/)). If you use a script, 
    then the environment variable is local to the script and 
    does not interfere with the rest of the system.

    * Example of running script, run from inside the directory where 
    the executable `qpp` is located:
	    
            #!/bin/sh # Run Quantum++ under OS X with MATLAB support
            
            export DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=$DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH:"/Applications/MATLAB_R2014b.app/bin/maci64"
            ./qpp

- If you build a debug version with [g++](https://gcc.gnu.org/) under 
[OS X](http://www.apple.com/osx) and use 
[gdb](http://www.gnu.org/software/gdb/) to step inside template functions 
you may want to add `-fno-weak` compiler flag. See 
<http://stackoverflow.com/questions/23330641/gnu-gdb-can-not-step-into-template-functions-os-x-mavericks>
for more details about this problem.
