stress_tests/README.md, before:

# Deprecated stress test suite - preserved solely for reference purposes.

## Stress test suite (for POSIX compliant systems)

Tests some quantum circuit/operation as a function of the number of cores of
the machine and number of qubits (hard-coded in the script `run.sh`). Records
the time for each such run in `results_$DATE.csv`, where `$DATE` represents the
current date and time of the run. Requires [OpenMP](https://www.openmp.org/).

To compile, I recommend using [CMake](https://cmake.org), then perform an
out-of-source build. Assuming you are at the root of this project, i.e., inside
`qpp/stress_test`, type

```bash
cmake -B build
cmake --build build --parallel 4
```

To run, execute

```bash
bash run.sh <path_to_stress_test_executable> <results_output_directory>
```

e.g.,

```bash
bash run.sh build/qft results
```

The results will be written in `results_output_directory/results_$DATE.csv`. If
the directory `results_output_directory` does not exist, it will be created.

## Python stress tests

We wrote some [Qiskit](https://qiskit.org/) and [QuTiP](https://qutip.org/)
stress tests scripts, all located in the `python` directory. The output format
they produce is exactly the same as the one produced by the C++ version, and
the `run.sh` script works with them with no modification, e.g.,

```bash
bash run.sh python/qft_qutip.py results
```

The command above assumes that [Qiskit](https://qiskit.org/) and
[QuTiP](https://qutip.org/) were successfully installed on your system. For
installation details, please refer to their corresponding documentation.

Commit message:

Skeleton benchmarking suite with Catch2
Signed-off-by: Vlad Gheorghiu <vsoftco@gmail.com>

stress_tests/README.md, after:

# Deprecated stress test suite - retained for reference only

Please refer to the new
[benchmarking suite](https://github.com/softwareQinc/qpp/tree/main/benchmarks)
which supersedes it.

## Stress test suite (for POSIX compliant systems)

Tests some quantum circuit/operation as a function of the number of cores of
the machine and number of qubits (hard-coded in the script `run.sh`). Records
the time for each such run in `results_$DATE.csv`, where `$DATE` represents the
current date and time of the run. Requires [OpenMP](https://www.openmp.org/).

To compile, I recommend using [CMake](https://cmake.org), then perform an
out-of-source build. Assuming you are at the root of this project, i.e., inside
`qpp/stress_test`, type

```bash
cmake -B build
cmake --build build --parallel 4
```

To run, execute

```bash
bash run.sh <path_to_stress_test_executable> <results_output_directory>
```

e.g.,

```bash
bash run.sh build/qft results
```

The results will be written in `results_output_directory/results_$DATE.csv`. If
the directory `results_output_directory` does not exist, it will be created.

## Python stress tests

We wrote some [Qiskit](https://qiskit.org/) and [QuTiP](https://qutip.org/)
stress tests scripts, all located in the `python` directory. The output format
they produce is exactly the same as the one produced by the C++ version, and
the `run.sh` script works with them with no modification, e.g.,

```bash
bash run.sh python/qft_qutip.py results
```

The command above assumes that [Qiskit](https://qiskit.org/) and
[QuTiP](https://qutip.org/) were successfully installed on your system. For
installation details, please refer to their corresponding documentation.
